The EDA approach is exactly about how a data analysis should be carried out. It is a philosophy as to how we divide a data set; what we look for; how we look; and how we clarify.

Majority of EDA techniques are graphical/ pictorial in nature. The main role of EDA is to open-mindedly explore, and graphics gives the analysts unique power to do so by convincing the data to reveal its structural secret, and being always ready to gain some new, often simple insight into the data.

**Data Analysis Approaches:**

Three popular data analysis approaches are:
- Classical
- Exploratory (EDA)
- Bayesian

The above 3 approaches are similar that they all start with general science/engineering issues and all in turn give science/engineering conclusions. The difference is the order and focus of the intermediate steps.

- For classical analysis, the order is;
  Issue => Data => Model => Analysis => Conclusions
  
- For Exploratory Data Analysis(EDA), the order is;
  Issue => Data => Analysis => Model => Conclusions

- For Bayesian, the order is;
  Issue => Data => Model => Prior Distribution => Analysis => Conclusions
  
In the reality, data analysts easily combine elements of all of the above three approaches (and other approaches). 

The Exploratory Data Analysis approach does not force deterministic(must happen) or probabilistic(May or may not happen) models on the data. On the contrary, the EDA approach allows the data to suggest admissible models that best fit the data and its always focus is on the data--its structure, outliers, and models suggested by the data. EDA techniques are generally graphical. They include mean plots, scatter plots, box plots, character plots, histograms, probability plots, bihistograms, and residual plots.

EDA makes use of and present all of the available data and there is no corresponding loss of information with little or no assumption.

**Goal of EDA:**

  The primary goal of EDA is to maximize understanding towards a dataset and reveal underlying structure and test underlying beliefs, while providing all of the specific items that an analyst would want to extract from a data set, such as: 
a good-fitting model; 
a list of outliers;
a ranked list of important factors;
conclusions as to whether individual factors are statistically significant.

**Insight into the Data:**

  To get a "feel" for the data, it is not enough for the analyst to know what is in the data; the analyst also must know what is not in the data, and the only way to do that is to draw on our own human pattern-recognition and comparative abilities in the context of a series of sensible graphical techniques applied to the data.

**The Role of Graphics:**

   Statistics and data analysis procedures can usually be split into two parts:
   _Quantitative and Graphical_
   
   Quantitative techniques are the set of statistical procedures that brings numeric or tabular output. Eg: Hypothesis Testing, Least Square Regression and so on. 
   
   Graphical techniques are large collection of statistical tools that we generally refer to as graphical techniques. Eg: Histograms, Scatter plots, Box plots and so on.

The EDA approach depend mainly on these and similar graphical techniques. Graphical techniques are not just tools that _we could use_ in an EDA context, they are tools that _we must use_. 
These _graphical tools are the shortest path to acquire insight into a data set_ in terms of: 
outlier detection; testing assumptions; relationship identification; model selection; model validation; factor outcome determination; estimator selection. 
