Start with stating the exploration question, the purpose of the exploration, the resources needed, and a plan for the exploration, including a model of the situation under study. 

Where do exploration ideas come from?  Need for deciding or acting; job; Curiosity; experience; etc.

A model shows how different parts are linked by relationships.  The parts for a model can be drawn from personal experience, consulting with key players, asking experts and  existing data sets and so on.  Generally a model is fixed at the beginning of the investigation; it may be altered as a result of the data analysis.

A model is a visual representation of how something works; it both describes and explains some phenomenon.

Parts of the model are _variables_. _Variables_ are measurable characteristics or properties of people or things that can take on different values. In contrast, characteristics that do not vary are _constants_.

A hypothesis states a imagined relationship between two variables in a way that can be tested with empirical/real data. It may take the form of a cause-effect statement, or an "if x,...then y" statement. The cause is called the _independent variable_; and the effect is called the _dependent variable_.

Relationships can be of various forms:  linear, or non-linear.  Linear relationships can be either direct (positive) or inverse (negative).
In a direct or positive relationship, the values of both x and y variables increase together or decrease together.  That is, if one increases in value, so does the other; if one decreases in value, so does the other.

In an inverse or negative relationship, the values of both x and y variables change in opposite directions.  That is, if the independent variable(x) increases in value, the dependent variable(y) decreases; if the independent variable decreases in value, the dependent variable increases.

