Variables are first defined by conceptual definitions, then by operational definitions. 
Conceptual definitions means idea the variable is trying to capture. Operational definitions means how the variable will be measured in action/practice.

While doing investigation, it is important to involve key decision-makers in the preparation of operational definitions in order to:
+ Gain consistency with the conceptual definition;
+ Analyse of poorly constructed operational definitions that will yield poor data;
+ Make sure that the data produced will be enough for decision-making and taking action.

**Measurement:**
Measurement is a method for assigning numbers, symbols or letters to empirical/real properties for variables according to rules. Rules for assigning labels to properties of variables are the most important bit of measurement, because poor rules can make the outcome meaningless.
  
  **Levels Of Measurement:**
  There are different levels of measurement, which tells how closely they approach the structure of the number system we use. Understanding the variables level of measurement decides the type of statistical analysis that can be conducted. Eventually helps to draw the conclusion from the research. 
  
 **1.Nominal Level:**
      This measurement uses symbols to classify observations into categories that must be both mutually exclusive and exhaustive.
      Mutually exclusive means that the categories must be unique enough that no observations will fall into more than one category.
      Exhaustive means that there must be enough categories that all the observations will fall into some category.
    
 **2.Ordinal Level:**
      This measurement uses symbols to classify observations into categories that are not only mutually exclusive and exhaustive; in addition, the categories have some explicit relationship among them.
      
 **3.Interval Level:**
       This measurement classifies observations into categories that are not only mutually exclusive and exhaustive, and have some explicit relationship among them, but the relationship between the categories is known and exact.
       
 **4.Ratio Level:**
      This measurement is the same as the interval level, with the addition of a meaningful zero point. 
      
      




